James, Tom, Katherine,

Proposals for the consideration of the Deputy Directors on 27 April 2012.

As context, there are presently two areas of work in the subject of
'balancing': 

  i.  The Electricity Systems Programme, which has commissioned
      quantitative analysis from Imperial and NERA, and will publish a
      paper in the summer.

  ii. James G., who is working on tools to provide back-of-the-envelope
      quantitative answers to questions in this area.

We propose two next steps:

   i.  Some combination of James G., Tom C., James D., Katherine to
       work up a proposal for a full SEG project on balancing, and to
       report back in one month. The project would be likely to start
       post-summer.

       The motivation for the project is that we, DECC, will need ways
       to answer questions within the general area of 'balancing'
       which we presently do not have. We anticipate being asked to
       address policy questions in this area some time in the next two
       years. It is likely that, when the policy questions arise, they
       will be urgent; therefore we should plan ahead.

       The starting point could be James' original paper for SEG/003.

       The above group will also consider:
       
         - whether there are burning platforms at present (upgrading
           of distribution network)?

	 - whether there are any policy areas in which analytical
           contributions before December would not be too late.


  ii. Separately, for there to be formed a small "SEG team",
      consisting of James G. + 1 or 2 FTEs, whose remit is to ensure
      that we acquire the analytical output of the Imperial / NERA
      work in a form that is comprehensive and coherent, and that it
      is provided in a format which could form the basis of future
      work.

      This provision of this data set was part of the original
      requirements of the consultants; we should ensure it happens. 

      This project would start as soon as the project resource and
      structure is in place, though it will not get traction until the
      first drafts of the data have been provided; it will disband no
      later than the summer publication.

      In addition, this project should attempt to synthesis from the
      results whatever insights we may obtain, and ensure that these
      are not inconsistent with the content of the summer publication.


